## March 29, 2023

* Learned more about NumPy
* NumPy linear algebra
* Relaxation method (finding fixed-point solutions)
* Simulating the spread of heat through a material with NumPy
* Things to take more of a look at: https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/time-perf_counter-function-in-python/
* Terminology regarding statically typed languages

## Vectorization in NumPy

* Define the term vectorization, as it is used in the context of Python/NumPy
* Prescribe the use of NumPy's vectorized functions for performing optimized numerical computations on arrays
* Compare the performance of a simple non-vectorized computation to a vectorized one
* Describe how unary, binary, and sequential functions are defined on NumPy arrays
* Provide a brief overview of linear algebra functions and logical operations

---

* The ND-array can be utilized in mathematical expressions to perform mathematical computations using an array's entries
* In general, NumPy implements mathematical functions such that, when a function acts on an array, the mathematical operating is applied to each entry in the array
* Recall that NumPy's ND-arrays are homogeneous: an array can only contain data of a single type
* In the context of high-level languages like Python, Matlab, and R, the term **vectorization** describes the use of optimized, pre-compiled code written in a low-level language to perform mathematical operations over a sequence of data.
* In other words, you can directly apply mathematical operations to NumPy arrays
* NumPy has different mathematical functions:
  * Unary functions: f(x)
  * Binary functions: f(x, y)
  * Functions that operate on sequences of numbers: $f(\{x_i\}_{i=0}^{n-1})$ 
* An unary function is a mathematical function that accepts one operand (i.e. argument)
* Binary functions take in two arrays
* You can apply binary NumPy functions to arrays of unlike shapes. For instance, you may want to add a single-shape-(2,) array with ten of such arrays, which are stored as a single shape-(10,2) array, known as **broadcasting**.
* The `axis` argument specifies which axis NumPy can traverse on. If X is an N-dimensional array, and j axes are specified with the `axis` keyword argument for a sequential NumPy function, then a N - j-dimensional 

## Broadcasting in NumPy

* NumPy provides a mechanism for performing mathematical operations on array of *unequal* shapes
* Rules of broadcasting
  * Arrays are broadcast-comptible if they satisfy either of the following conditions: the aligned dimensions have the same size or one of the dimensions has a size of 1 

## The relaxation method

* In math, a function f(x) is said to have a "fixed-point" solution if there exists a value x such that f(x) = x. 
* While some functions can be solved algebraically, others can't - these are known as transcendental equations
* How can we find these?
* We can use an iterative method, where we guess a starting point, and then feed in the result back in until we get something that is close enough.
* This can get into a loop, but is useful for most situations.

### Problem #1

Write a relaxation method function that accepts three arguments:

* A Python function, which accepts a number as an input, and returns a float as an output
* An initial guess for the fixed point, x0, a floating-point number
* The number of iterations, n, to perform the relaxation method on the provided function

```python
def relaxation_method1(func, xo, num_it):
    """ Performs the relaxation method to find a fixed-point for `func`,
        given the initial guess `xo`. The relaxation process is carried out for
        `num_it` steps.
        
        Parameters
        ----------
        func : Callable[[float], float]
            The function whose fixed point is being found.
        xo : float
            The initial "guess" value.
        num_it : int
            The number of relaxation-iterations to perform.
        
        Returns
        -------
        List[float]
            A list of the initial guess, and all of the subsequent guesses generated
            by the relaxation method. """
    res = [xo]
    for i in range(num_it):
        res.append(func(res[len(res) - 1]))
    return res
```

### Problem #2

Our current implementation of the relaxation method is quite crude in that we must specify the number of iterations it performs, then simply look at the output to see if we have converged to a fix-point.

The following formula gives an upper-bound estimate on how close xn is to a true fixed point:

```math
\begin{equation}
\epsilon_{n} = \lvert\frac{(x_n - x_{n-1})^2}{2x_{n-1} - x_{n-2} - x_{n}}\rvert
\end{equation}
```

Armed with this formula, we can now write a much better algorithm, which can operate based on tolerance rather than a strict number of iterations.

Write a second version of the relaxation method. This function should accept four arguments:

* A Python function, which accepts a number as an input, and returns a float as an output
* An initial guess for the fixed point, x0, a floating-point number
* A tolerance value, a positive-valued floating-point number
* A max number of iterations that your algorithm is permitted to run

## Simulating the spread of heat through a material

We're going to learn about a simple algorithm for numerically simulating the spread of heat through a material. We will want to use vectorization to write an efficient algorithm.

Imagine that we have a rectangular piece of steel. For now, let's treat this piece of steel as a 5x5 grid - we are only able to measure the average temperature of each of these 25 grid regions. Let's assume that steel starts off at a uniform 0 degrees. Thus, our temperature readout for each of its grid positions is:

```
0     0     0     0     0 
0     0     0     0     0 
0     0     0     0     0 
0     0     0     0     0 
0     0     0     0     0 
```

Now, we will clampp hot contacts, which are always at a constant 100-degrees, along the outer edges of the steel. Upon clamping these contacts, our temperature readout is going to be:

```
100   100   100   100   100
100    0     0     0    100
100    0     0     0    100
100    0     0     0    100
100   100   100   100   100
```

We will adopt the same indexing scheme as a 2D NumPy array. The top-left corner is located at (0, 0). Moving forward, we want to describe, numerically, how the heat from the contacts will spread through the material as time carries on. The heat equation is a partial differential equation that describes the flow of heat through space and time. In the following equation, the function u(x, y, t) describes how much heat resides at the location (x, y) at time t:

```math
\begin{equation}
\frac{\partial u}{\partial t} - \alpha \left(\frac{\partial^{2} u}{\partial x^{2}} + \frac{\partial^{2} u}{\partial y^{2}} \right)= 0
\end{equation}
```

This equation ultimately says is that heat will spread such that a point will take on the average amount of heat among its neighboring points, like so:

```math
\begin{equation}
u^{(t)}_{ij} = \frac{u^{(t-1)}_{i+1,j} + u^{(t-1)}_{i-1,j} + u^{(t-1)}_{i,j+1} + u^{(t-1)}_{i,j-1}}{4}
\end{equation}
```

## NumPy linear algebra

* `np.linalg.norm` calculates the magnitude of a vector
* `np.matmul` for matrix multiplation

## Statically typed languages

* A statically typed language has a type system that is checked at compile time by the implementation
* 
