I'm planning to get the following done today:

* Finish HC's transfer application
* Finish building music queue for [Horizon](https://horizon.hackclub.com)

I also want to cover a little more of machine learning and take more notes, but we'll see.

For BWSI I put UAV as my second course, so I'm copy-pasting some notes I did on it!

* Most commerical AUVs are modular by design so that they can be configured for specific missions. The modular design is needed due to the limited space onboard to carry extraneous components
* BWSI focuses on robo-submarine type AUVs that are designed to swim forward only
* Parts of a UAV:
    * Propeller
    * Fins
    * GPS WiFi medium
    * Strobe light
    * Bottom profiler
    * GoPro
    * Acoustic Doppler current profiler
    * Turbulence sensor
    * Forward looking sonar
    * Acoustic modem
    * CTD sensor
* Control surfaces
    * Distributed around the AUV body are a collection of appendages, sometimes called fins, winds or rudders. The design and placements of these fins is the result of complex physics models
    * For now, the important facts to know about these fins is that some of them are stability surfaces and others are control surfaces
        * Stability surfaces serve to ensure that the AUV maintains a level smooth trajectory, even when it is fighting undersea currents or surface wave effects.
        * Control surfaces, on the other hand, are designed to rotate to cause the vehicle to turn, dive, or ascend to the surface. The control surfaces are typically near the tail of the UAV.    
    * Propeller controls whether AUV is moving or not, and how fast it moves through the water column. For most purposes, fixed speed works
* Sensors
    * AUVs can carry wide variety of sensors that are suited to its intended mission
    * Underwater cameras
* Command and control
    * Comes in two layers:
    * The vehicle controller: usually comes as part of the commercial AUV and enables a user to reliably tell the AUV how to execute a pre-planned mission
        * Typically has well-tested functions to steer the vehicle from waypoint to waypoint, to change speeds, or to travel in a fixed direction and/or speed for a length of time
        * Number of safety features implemented by the manufacturer, like aborting a mission
* Navigation
    * Even though there is no GPS, AUVs still use a GPS antenna to determine locations safe to ascend to the surface. (Common safety procedure)
    * During underwater segment, an AUV may use an inertial navigation system, which integrates ownship accelerations to provide a positional estimate with a slowly growing positional error as a function of time
    * May be aided by a system of transponder buoys that are in known fixed locations to serve as short-range underwater GOS
* Communication
    * While underwater, typical communication is an acoustic modem, since sounds travels far better underwater than electromagnetic waves.
    * On surface, can use WiFi antenna for short-range communications and an iridium satellite communications antenna for long-range communications
* Strobe light for safety

### Essential nautical terms

Boating vocab!

* Port bow, port beam, port quarter is on left side when facing front (port has same # of letters as *left*)
* Starboard bow, starboard beam, starboard quarter is on right side when facing front
* *Ahead* and *astern* are used to describe movement. Ahead = forward, astern = backward
* Sharp end at front = bow, back = stern
* Beam of a vessel is "traditionally where the largest deck beam extended across the widest point of the ship from one side of the hull to the other.
    * Sailing yacht: Mast (in the middle)
    * Speedboats: Towards the back
* Midships: Middle of boat
* Quarters are located *abaft* (behind) the "Beam" and forward of the "Stern" on either side of the vessel
* Direction from the vessel
    * "Shipwreck 45 degrees off the port bow" means 45 degrees between the port bow and the port beam
    * "Starboard 90 degrees" = starboard beam
* *Windward* and *leeward*: Towards and away from wind, respectively
* When sailing with wind coming over the port side of a sailing vessel it is said to be on a *port tack* vs. *starboard tack*. We can change direction by making a *tacking* maneuver.
* Helmsman is the person who typically steers the ship. Conning office r will repeat the given command

### Vehicle Types

* Deep Submergence Vehicle (DSV): a vehicle that operates at extreme depths and pressures typical of the deep ocean
* Remotely Operated Vehicle (ROV)
* Piloted or Human Operated Vehicle (HOV)
* Autonomous Surface Vehicle (ASV)
* Autonomous Underwater Vehicle (AUV)

I also took some notes on math!

### Vectors

* Vector = magnitude + direction
* Speed is a scalar, but velocity is a vector.
* Vectors are represented on papers with an arrow above or are bolded, but can also have be represented by column notation like so:
```math
\begin{bmatrix} 5 \\ 0 \end{bmatrix} 
```
* Top coordinate is horizontal direction, bottom is vertical direction
* Magnitude of a vector is basically Pythagorean's theorem
* Multiple dimensions is possible!
* Multiplying a vector by a scalar

### Real coordinate spaces

* Real coordinate space is represented by the symbol $\mathbb{R}^2$ (R with bolded left leg), and it's basically what it seems - the real coordinate values of a vector
* The two in the math notation above basically means "this is a 2-dimensional real coordinate space"
* All of the real possible 2-tuples
